# BYTEME
Natural Disasters are events that cause a great damage or loss of lives. Every year natural disasters kill around 90000 people and affect close to 160 million people worldwide. Prediction of such disasters can be done using one of the most upcoming fields in A.I called Machine Learning. Seismometers are instruments which detect and record earthquakes. These instruments record waveforms of vibrations of the ground. This data will be recorded, analysed and compiled and later trained using Machine Learning algorithms to predict any impending earthquakes in the future. Similarly, data of past occurrences of volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, floods, cyclones, etc can be trained using Machine Learning to predict their future occurrences. Apart from relying on historical data to use Machine Learning, we can also use ground-based sensors to record the widening of fault lines when the fault width reaches a dangerously large value, the population residing in that locality can be informed to shift away to safer regions.  
Our best idea to help people stranded in calamity affected areas is to introduce the idea of a "disaster specific" device which is provided beforehand to people living in such areas. First aim of this device is to increase connectivity between the people stranded and the rescue team. Apart from having a GPS installed on the device, this can also be implemented by having a piezoelectric beeper installed in the device which can send high frequency signals giving the location of the device. This will help the rescue team to locate stranded individuals. A preinstalled app on this device can maintain medical records of the person and can constantly monitor the person's heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature, etc. Using this data, the person's current health situation during the calamity will can be shared with the rescue team and nearby doctors who can medically assist those in urgent need of it. The device can also send out lists of medicines and drugs required in areas that cannot be immediately accessed by the rescue team. Drones can be used for such supplies which takes input from these devices to find out the medicines each individual needs. This will help in controlling epidemic outbreaks. The device can also consist of an electrochemical toxic gas detector which helps detect harmful gases in the user's immediate surroundings. When there is no connectivity or a way to figure out the number of people stranded and as well as their location, we can make use of drones and identify the location of the stranded people by plotting heat maps in the region. This way, less time is spent in searching for people and the lives of rescuers are under lesser threat. These drones could also help visualise the area of impact by creating 3D models. This will help understand the extent of damage of water tanks, power lines, etc without having to physically be there.
